---
layout: post
title:  "Blurring parts of the screen in OBS Studio, other tips"
date:   2021-04-02 16:10-0400
comments: false
---

This blog posts captures some learning I did about OBS recently.

I recently invested a little time in learning the basics of [OBS Studio](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio).  OBS is one of
those programs that seems enormously powerful, has a vast user base,
and a correspondingly vast amount of content about it on YouTube.
There is so much content about OBS it's hard to tell what's good.
Thankfully, I stumbled upon 
[this 27 minute tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ySENWFIkL7c)
from Kevin Stratvert.

In addition to Mr. Stratvert's tutorial, there are some other
essential tips I want to capture.

## Blurring during recording

[This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5zM3xvkb8dY), from a much
more gamer-focused perspective, did give a practical tip for how
selectively blur arbitrary portions of the screen.  I'll outline the
process next.

1. Add a new **Display capture** source.

1. Arrange it above your "main" **Display capture** source.

1. Add a **Scaling/Aspect Ratio** filter to it.

   1. **Scale Filtering** Point.
   1. **Resolution** 640x360
   
1. Drag the red grabber handles so that the new **Display capture**
   source completely covers the "main" display capture source.
   
1. **HERE IS THE IMPORTANT STEP**: Hold down the alt key and re-size
   the grabbers to cover the area you want to blur.  **It is very
   important you don't move the region by dragging it.** Use the
   alt-resize technique to effectively move the blur zone.
   
   * This works because of the low resolution you set.
   
1. Repeat this process for whatever other parts of the screen you want
   to blur.  Note that you can blur/un-blur easily with the "eye" icon
   for htat **Display capture** source in the **Sources** screen.
   
## Bluring after recording

I found I missed some things on my first recording and needed to do
additional blurring.  No problem, add a **Media** source and select
the file from the first recording.  You can then play the first recording
into another recording and add more blurring as desired. I found this
reminded me of some of the performance aspect of [real time analog audio mixing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sqz5YaHx26g) because I had to take cues from the media source for when to blur/un-blur certain parts of the screen.

Note, when you add **Media** source, by default you cannot hear the
audio. Turn it on with these steps.

1. In the **Audio Mixer** panel, in the row for **Media Source** select the cog icon and select **Advanced Audio Properties**.

1. In the row for **Media Source**, in the column for **Audio Monitoring**, ensure **Monitor and Output** is selected.

## Removing click sounds from your mic while recording

Add these filters to your **Mic/Aux** source.

1. **Noise Suppression**: RNNoise

1. **Noise Gate**

   * Close Threshold: -54.00 dB
   
   * Open Threshold: -39.00 dB
   
   Remainder at defaults.
   
   

